# Teste prático / defesa

1. 
   1 instance, 3 surfaces
   O que interessava é o numero de 3 surfaces. 3 cameras, 3 surfaces. A partir dai tambem tinhamos que ir buscar o mesmo numero de swapcahins.

2. Set of queues that suppor same type of operations.

3. 
vkinstance infor indo -> deveria ter sido incializada a zero.
static cast em size.

4. device -> nao deveruia retornar nada.
5. funoces em vukan so devolvem vk_result.

6. roation in z.

7. because each teapot had fdifferent model matriz and color 

8. mvp

9. camera -> faltava inverter a camara!!!


10. qd se passar as coordenadas de um vertex shader para um fragment shader 
    lienarly interpolates the value...

11. return coords * 1/2 + 1/2.º

12. 
    VK_index_type_float -> indice delcarado como float ! Nao pode ser -> int!
    para alem disso, havia declaração como int, e deveria ter sido unsigned int (num_indices)


---

# Ass 5

Note - em determinada parte do trabalho aparecia um "artefacto" - problema com zeros...
Normal. Depois desaparece.

---

# Let's  go

## REcall Cook Torance - Specular Reflection

L0 = _F_(H, V) * _G_(N, V, L) * _D_(N, H) / 4 ||N*L|| * ||N*V||

*L0 = s_spec

- F: how much light is reflected VS (%)
    - 1-F => how much light is refracted
  
- G: how much surface is shadowed / inability to see the reflection of light (%)
    - quanto mais bumped is the surface, the higher is this percentage
    - how many microsurfaces are self-ocluded

- D: normal distribution; how much light to me
    - how many microsurfaces point to us (%)
  

### Como a difusa é calculada?
If we calulte this n ray tracing , thats fine.
But, problem -> we treated a part of light... The one reflected...
But light does not dissapear -> part of light was refracted into the object, from the Fresnel component.

For this part, we assume that it travels inside the oject, and then leaves the object once more uniformly throughout area.
The light that goes into the viewer matches the direction of the reflected light (the portion we calculated first).
So, we take only the portion of the diffused light, which matches reflected light.
That also means that the diffusion, technically, is always the same portion in whichever direction we look from.

Meaning: if an object is red, that means that 100% of the reds in the inciding light that comes into the objet is reflacted and not absorbed into the object (transofrmed into heat). That is why, later we multiply the diffused light by the albedo (color of the object)

L_diff  = kD * albedo / pi 
        = (1-F) * (1-metalness) L_in * albedo / pi

Note: Quanto mais dieletrico for, mais reflexao vamos ter
- tentar perceber em 5.2 a quantidade de luz refletida em cada caso


---

Fresnel depende de F0
- estudo de fresnel é estudar da luz maxaim que podai refleter, qual a percentagem que reflete dependendo do angulo de quando vemos
- note: use 'mix' function in glsl. This is tointerpolate lienarly in point a and b ausing the criteia which
- mix(a,b, t) -> 
  - a ------> b
  - 0   0.5   1

We use this logic to interpolate and mix metalicness and color:
    vec3             albedo
    dialetric ------> metallic
  - 0           0.5   1
  - Rec: dieletric (low reflectivity); metalness has high specular reflection


Note: cuidado com a ideia de que tinhamos visto na aula passada que a refleetividade era suficiente para definir um material, ou o aspeto de um material.
From Gepeto friend:

### 💡 Why people say “F₀ defines the material”

Because in simplified models:

For dielectrics → F₀ is almost constant (~0.04)
For metals → F₀ encodes the color of reflection

So in some contexts:
👉 “F₀ defines the reflective behavior”

But not:
👉 “F₀ defines the whole material”

---
Note:
https://www.codinglabs.net/article_physically_based_rendering_cook_torrance.aspx

---

# HDR images & OLED screens

Screens not always show all possible colors. They are limited into what they can scren.
We see more than what we can show in screens.

HDR VS ??? 
- high dynamic range -> represent light as float (offers better precision)

We use floats when calculatin light.
In GGx we have no limite - only watts that exist in the scene.

One screen OLED has more choices in darks -  have more precision here.
OLED have more representation in all color gama. But, the darks is where we can see it best.
why in the darks? Weber law
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weber%E2%80%93Fechner_law
Ver o exemplo da imagem!
Our perception is logarithmic. In each sense - hearing, sight all!

at some point in the project we have to do the maping/grading of our colors from 0 to whichever we have (ggx) into the translation from 0 to 1. There are different ways to fo this.
Ex: Breaking Bad -> different color tones used for scenes in mexico and USA (Mexico is yellow).

Screens already accout for weber's law.
Fragment shader is not expecting RGB , rather ScaledRGB - values scaled for RGB.
Para conseguir mapear isto corretamente para um ecra, para ter uma imagem realista, temos que escalar as cores de uma forma logaritmica.

Gamma correction -> scaling of SRGB.
Note: in cinema this is also used in terms of rendering time to prepare the image for cinmea. Sometimes they tweek it a litte bit to take less time rendering.

---

Color spaces:
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HSL_and_HSV
  
Represent color as a cylinder.
Hue -> cor
Saturação -> intensidade
Lightness -> quao claro ou escuro

We like colors related to one another.

